Node JS Master Class
-------------------------------------------------------
node in 2011, developed in 2009 by Ryan dahl. there was less response from hacker news. 2010 created npm. collaborating the code. MongoDB in feb 2009.
JSON used by social medias enhanced the use of RESTful JSON Apis our SOAP or XML
ExpressJS Moongoose(plug MongoDB and Node) Angular Node for Windows (MEAN Stack)
NodeJS foundations
V8 Chrome JS Engine (machine code that modern computers understand) js interpreter
JSCore(iOS), SpiderMonkey(Firefox), Chakra(ie)
NodeJs is a serverside js runtime environment.
V8 is the cars engine and drivetrain.Nodejs is evertyhing else that makes the car. you are the driver.
Nodejs is a c++ application thats embeds the v8 js engine.

call the script processor with : node {script name} eg node index.js
first he event loop starts when the file scripts executes.
event loop is continually checkong if there any new for nodejs to do.
event loops has tasks hich runs in loop 
nodjs process non blocking . it makes a db request move that to event loop as callback so the main thread is not blocked.
there is only one entry point to node. and the entire application runs on that file. how because of modules require and import.
Node module system creates a dependency tree, which tells node which files are needed to run the application.
Nodes script processor do read the file read its dependency execute the synchronous and then tododlist list by event loop
REPL (Read Eval Print loop) -- it works like console in we browser it isa way to define and executejs code against the v8 engine in real time.. to envike REPL just enter node. it just writing the js and press enter.
Common patterns in an applications
package.json, package.lock.json
.npmrc - config to have the private repo access
.env file for the environment specific
.travis.yml
.gitignore,.git
@param @todo for each function defined which helps for documentation
test folder for testing

// 1st App
An uptime monitor allows users to enter URLs they want monitored, and receive alerts when those resources go down or come back up. App shuld be useabe so we ill include features such as user sign-up and sign-in. We will also include functionlity for sending an SMS alert to a user rather than email.
-- Twilio to sned SMS